---
layout: post
title:  "Final Project Datavis- Simon Urbak Pedersen & Albert Brincker Olson!"
date:   2024-05-05 11:43:53 +0100
categories: Final Project
---

%intro

In this project we will take a look at the Copenhagen residential prices from 2000 to 2024. The aim is to gain insight into how the housing prices have changed over time and across space. Notably some important events are contained within our temporal period, mainly the 2008 economic crash and the covid-19 pandemic. 

% Dataset
As far as we know, a comprehensive dataset of all housing sales from 2000 - 2024 is not publicly available. To remedy this we have opted to scrape our data from "boligsiden.dk". Scraping from this side gives us access to variables from Bygnings og Bolig-registeret(BBR). In total we have gathered 2889191 recorded sales from the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg. For each recorded sale we obtain 5 variables: longitude, latitude, neighbourhood, date and squaremeterprice. Furthermore we have also obtained some shapefiles describing the neighbourhood borders, in order to produce visualizations that highlight the price change in the different regions of the city


% CLEANING DATA  

Upon first inspection, it seems that there are some extreme outliers in the data.
% boxplot før outlier removal
A boxplot of the sqm. price for each neighbourhood shows many sales recorded as having a sqm. price in the millions, which is orders of magnitude above what one would expect. We decided to remove any observations with sqm. price above the 97th percentile, which then gives us a much more appropriate distribution as seen below
% boxplot efter outlier removal
Using scraped data, we do not have an external description of the domain. However, there are some known issues with BBR register: First of all, it is the owners own responsibility to inform to changes to the property, which creates a lot of false information. If a developer buys a large property, ie. apartment complex and sells off the apartments individually, it is likely that one of the apartments will inherit the old registration number. If the apartment complex was bought for 50 million kr. and the falsely registered apartment is 50 sqm. then the sqm price for that apartment will be 500,000 kr in the BBR register REF HERE.

Unfortunately, we do not know exactly what observations are outliers due to false information in the BBR. Concequently, the chosen cut-off point of 3% has been made by looking at the boxplot and setting the cut to what seems like a reasonable price range for house prices. Comparing our line plots with those of Boliga REFF HERE done on the same data, we see that they must have removed more outliers since their curve is smoother. Unfortunately, we do not have information on the cleaning scheme, why we decided not to remove other observations than those that seemed highly unlikely.

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
